What Are Partial Indexes?
    A partial index is an index built on a subset of a table's data, defined by a filter condition (a WHERE clause). Unlike a regular index, which indexes every row in a table, a partial index only indexes rows that meet the criteria specified in the filter condition.

How Partial Indexes Work
    Consider the scenario where you have a large table, but only a small portion of the data is queried frequently or needs indexing. A partial index can significantly reduce the size of the index by only including those rows that meet certain conditions, thereby improving query performance and reducing storage overhead.

For example, if you have a table Orders with columns order_id, customer_id, and order_status, and you frequently query for only the "shipped" orders, a partial index would be ideal.
CREATE INDEX idx_shipped_orders
ON Orders (order_id)
WHERE order_status = 'shipped';

This partial index would only index rows where the order_status is 'shipped'. Queries filtering by order_status = 'shipped' would benefit from faster performance, while queries with other statuses (like 'pending' or 'delivered') would not be impacted.

Advantages of Partial Indexes:
    Reduced Storage Space: Since partial indexes only index a subset of data, they require less disk space compared to full indexes.
    Improved Query Performance: Queries that use the same filtering condition as the partial index will benefit from faster lookup times, as the index is smaller and more focused on relevant data.
    Faster Insert/Update Operations: Updates and inserts that don’t affect the indexed rows won’t require changes to the partial index, making them faster than if the index were applied to all rows.
    Less Maintenance Overhead: Since the partial index only covers a subset of the data, it can be more efficient to maintain, particularly for large tables where only a portion of the data is queried frequently.

Disadvantages of Partial Indexes:
    Limited Use: Partial indexes are only effective if queries consistently use the same filtering condition that the index is based on. If your queries vary significantly, a partial index may not be as useful.
    Complexity: It adds some complexity to index management since you need to ensure that the filter condition matches the most common query patterns.

When to Use Partial Indexes:
    Selective Queries: Use a partial index when you frequently query a specific subset of data (e.g., a specific status in an order table).
    Sparsely Populated Columns: If a column has many null or infrequent values but you query only a specific set of those values, a partial index can significantly reduce the size of the index.
    Large Tables with Specific Query Patterns: If you have a large table and certain types of queries run frequently, creating a partial index that covers only the data used in those queries can improve performance without wasting resources on unnecessary indexing.

